---
key: 2001-Chu-sigcomm
date: 2001-08-01
title: "Enabling Conferencing Applications on the Internet Using an Overlay Muilticast Architecture"
venue: "Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocols for Computer Communication (ACM SIGCOMM)"
authors: Yang Chu, Sanjay Rao, Srinivasan Seshan and Hui Zhang
webpage: https://doi.org/10.1145/383059.383064
---

URL: https://doi.org/10.1145/383059.383064

Bibtex Entry:

@inproceedings{2001-Chu-sigcomm,
    author = "Chu, Yang and Rao, Sanjay and Seshan, Srinivasan and Zhang, Hui",
    title = "Enabling Conferencing Applications on the Internet Using an Overlay Muilticast Architecture",
    year = "2001",
    isbn = "1581134118",
    publisher = "Association for Computing Machinery",
    address = "New York, NY, USA",
    url = "https://doi.org/10.1145/383059.383064",
    doi = "10.1145/383059.383064",
    abstract = "In response to the serious scalability and deployment concerns with IP Multicast, we and other researchers have advocated an alternate architecture for supporting group communication applications over the Internet where all multicast functionality is pushed to the edge. We refer to such an architecture as End System Multicast. While End System Multicast has several potential advantages, a key concern is the performance penalty associated with such a design. While preliminary simulation results conducted in static environments are promising, they have yet to consider the challenging performance requirements of real world applications in a dynamic and heterogeneous Internet environment.In this paper, we explore how Internet environments and application requirements can influence End System Multicast design. We explore these issues in the context of audio and video conferencing: an important class of applications with stringent performance requirements. We conduct an extensive evaluation study of schemes for constructing overlay networks on a wide-area test-bed of about twenty hosts distributed around the Internet. Our results demonstrate that it is important to adapt to both latency and bandwidth while constructing overlays optimized for conferencing applications. Further, when relatively simple techniques are incorporated into current self-organizing protocols to enable dynamic adaptation to latency and bandwidth, the performance benefits are significant. Our results indicate that End System Multicast is a promising architecture for enabling performance-demanding conferencing applications in a dynamic and heterogeneous Internet environment.",
    booktitle = "Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocols for Computer Communication (ACM SIGCOMM)",
    pages = "55–67",
    numpages = "13",
    month = "August",
    category = "Overlay",
    location = "San Diego, California, USA",
    series = "SIGCOMM '01"
}

