---
key: 2010-Kumar-sigcomm
date: 2010-08-01
title: "Flexible Multimedia Content Retrieval Using InfoNames"
venue: "ACM SIGCOMM"
authors: Arun Kumar, Ashok Anand, Aditya Akella, Athula Balachandran, Vyas Sekar and Srinivasan Seshan
webpage: https://doi.org/10.1145/1851182.1851260
---

URL: https://doi.org/10.1145/1851182.1851260

Bibtex Entry:

@inproceedings{2010-Kumar-sigcomm,
    author = "Kumar, Arun and Anand, Ashok and Akella, Aditya and Balachandran, Athula and Sekar, Vyas and Seshan, Srinivasan",
    title = "Flexible Multimedia Content Retrieval Using InfoNames",
    year = "2010",
    isbn = "9781450302012",
    publisher = "Association for Computing Machinery",
    address = "New York, NY, USA",
    url = "https://doi.org/10.1145/1851182.1851260",
    doi = "10.1145/1851182.1851260",
    abstract = {Multimedia content is a dominant fraction of Internet usage today. At the same time, there is significant heterogeneity in video presentation modes and operating conditions of Internet-enabled devices that access such content. Users are often interested in the content, rather than the specific sources or the formats. The host-centric format of the current Internet does not support these requirements naturally. Neither do the recent data-centric naming proposals, since they rely on naming content based on raw byte-level hashing schemes. We argue that to meet these requirements, enabling content retrieval mechanisms to name and query directly for the underlying information is a good way forward. In addition to decoupling content from available sources and transfer protocols, these "information-aware names" or InfoNames explicitly decouple the information from content presentation factors as well. We envision an InfoName Resolution System (IRS) to resolve location based on InfoNames, while taking into account the operating conditions of devices. In this demo, we present an application to show how InfoNames can serve as presentation-invariant and portable names to fetch video content independent of device capabilities and resource constraints.},
    booktitle = "ACM SIGCOMM",
    pages = "455–456",
    numpages = "2",
    notes = "poster",
    keywords = "naming, InfoName, content retrieval, multimedia, information based architecture",
    location = "New Delhi, India",
    series = "SIGCOMM '10",
    month = "August"
}

